Hi and welcome to the section on variables and memory references.
And in fact we'll see very shortly that variables are memory references.
So first let's talk about memory a little bit and we'll do a conceptual diagram of memory.
And we can think of memory as a series of slots of boxes that exist in our computer and we can store
and retrieve data from those slots.
We can also compare it to the mail system.
Now when you send a letter to somebody you usually have to write an address on that letter and that
address corresponds to a unique mailbox somewhere in the world.
And by writing that address you make sure that the contents of your letter is delivered to that mailbox
and it's pretty much the same in computers and with memory.
We need a unique address for each of those slots.
And typically they're just numbers so we can number them arbitrarily a thousand thousand one thousand
two.
And so on and those are called memory addresses.
Now when we store data in memory addresses we may actually use more than one slot at a time certain
amounts of data will fit nicely inside a single slot but those slots have a finite amount of space.
But as long as we know where the object Stults in memory that's good enough.
And so for example object number one is stored at address 1000.
Now it overflows into another memory address.
Let's say a thousand one.
Same thing of object number two object number two standard memory address 1002 and overflows into two
more of those slots.
Object number 3 happens to fit precisely in one slot and it's that address.
And that's is called the heap and storing and retrieving objects from the heap is taken care of for
us by something called the python memory manager which we'll look at in more detail in a later lesson.
So let's take a look at what happens when we write a line of code such as my vaule one equals ten.
So let's bring back our conceptual diagram of memory.
And here we have those empty slots.
So when we execute the statement my Volle one equals 10.
The first thing Python does is it creates an object in memory at some address.
Let's say a thousand and it stores the value 10 inside that object.
And my vote one is simply a name an alias if you will for the memory address where that object is stored
or the starting address of the object if it overflows into multiple slots.
And so my vote one is said to be a reference to the object at address 1000.
Now you'll note my vote one is not equal to 10.
My vote one in fact is equal to 1000.
In this case by the thousand represents the memory address of the data we're actually interested in.
So as developers when we write code we kind of think my vol 1 is equal to 10 and for all practical purposes
it is.
But we have to remember my vol 1 is not equal to 10.
It is a reference to an object at that location.
Similarly if we write my vault two equals Hello it's first gets created and stone somewhere in memory
that said address one thousand two.
And if it overflows into more slots that's fine.
And my vote to now becomes an alias or a reference to that memory address and we say that my velt to
reference's the object at address 1002.
So again it's kind of important to understand variables in Python.
Always references and the references to objects in memory.
So in python we can find out what the memory address is of a variable by using the ID function.
Now it's not something you will typically be using as you write Python programs but we will be using
it quite a bit in order to understand what's happening in the Python programs we run and especially
what is happening to variables as we pass them along in our code throughout their lifetime.
It is important to understand what's really happening.
So the ID function will return a base 10 numbers.
And if you want you can convert that to a hex number by using the built in hex function and Python.
So for example if we have a equals 10 we can find the hexadecimal version of the memory address of a.
By printing out hex of ID of a.
So let's take a look at a quick example in Python and see how that works.
OK.
So let's create a variable.
Let's say my VAR equals 10.
So now we've created this variable.
And remember what is really happening is that 10 was saved somewhere in memory and my VAR is now a reference
to that object.
Now we can print out my vote and we can see it returns 10.
Now what actually happened is that Python looked at my VAR and then looked at what is the memory address
that my VAR is referencing.
It found that memory address it went to the memory retrieved the data from memory and then brought it
back so that we can display it in our code so we can look at the memory address by using the ID function
so we can look at the memory address of my VAR by using the ID function.
And there we go.
It's this big number there.
1 7 1 8 3 4 8 5 2 8.
Now when you run this code you probably won't get the same numbers right because the memory addresses
will be different.
In fact if we rerun this code later on we'll have a different memory address.
We can also print the hexadecimal version of the memory address by using the hex function
passing it the ID which is the decimal version of the memory address of my father.
And when we run that we get a slightly shorter number which is why I like using the hex versions.
So six six six BHF zero.
Now let's do another one.
Let's do.
Greeting equals Let's use a string this time.
OK.
So we have greeting equals Hello we can print it out.
OK so we'll print it out.
There we go it retrieved the data that was at the memory address referenced by greeting.
Now what is the memory address.
Well we can look it up
and this big number here which as you can see is different from the memory address of my VAR.
If we want the hex version which is to hex an ID of greeting and there we go.
That's the hex number for the memory address that greeting references.
All right.
So bottom line variables are just memory addresses.
They're not actually equal to the value we think they're equal to.
Logically we can think of it that way.
But in real terms the memory references.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see in the next video.